# **Finding Lane Lines on the Road** 

## Writeup Report

---

**Finding Lane Lines on the Road**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road
* Reflect on your work in a written report

---

### Reflection

### 1. Pipeline and Details on draw_lines()
My pipeline consisted of 8 steps.
1. Read the image
2. Grayscale process
3. Gaussian smoothing
4. Canny edge detection
5. Mask edge image with the focus on the lane marking ahead
6. Hough transfomation
7. Draw line segments, then the lines extrapolated by them
8. Combine the generated line with the original image

In order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, first I split the cases into two groups. One is for the lines with  postive slope, the other is for the lines with negative slope. With the filtering method(within 1.5x standard deviation), the average mathematic parameters are generated secondly. At last, by using the image shape and the intersection point of the left & right lane lines, the lines on left and right lanes can be drawn on the image successfully.

If you would like to see the image in each step, please kindly refer the Jupyther Notebook / HTML file.

### 2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline

One potential shortcoming would be that the lane lines could be still drawn linear when the vehicle is crossing a curve.  

Another shortcoming could be some parameters are hard code just because the test images are very idea. All in daytime, with clear sight, no night image, no rainy or snowy image.

### 3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline

A possible improvement would be to change the linear regression to binomial method, which need more points on the line. With this improvement, the algorithm will be more robust for different cases

Another potential improvement could be to some hard-code parameter can be generated by the functions.
